Another part of the safety plan,
involves defining roles and responsibilities.
One person would not be expected to do all of the work required by ISO 26262.
In fact, developing the functional safety of a product can involve multiple teams,
both within a company and across different companies.
Some of the most important roles in a safety related project include,
the project manager who ensures all of
the necessary resources are available to the project.
The safety manager, who would write the safety plan and
then monitor the project progress against that plan.
A safety engineer, would be responsible for
architectural designs and implementation steps like integration and testing.
The safety auditor, makes sure that the company
implements processes according to the functional safety standard.
The safety assessor, acts as
an independent judge as to whether the project has made the vehicle safer.
A test manager, plans the tests that determine whether the system works as expected.
Clearly defined roles in the safety plan,
ensure that each member of the team knows what to do.
Defining roles, also ensures that every activity has a team member assigned to it.